> Very happy to hear that you enjoy my work. I looked at your LinkedIn and noticed that you're quite impressive!
> You did the right thing in trying to co-ordinate with the instructors directly.
> This is almost always more efficient and leads to better outcomes.
> The difficulty of course is whether each professor will cooperate or not—but that doesn't seem like your main issue here.

1. Accessibility: This is my primary concern. How is the support for fully blind students using a screen reader and a computer? I'm looking into the "Computer Programming & Analysis" program. Which program did you take, and what was your experience like? How were the tests conducted?

> Quick clarification, I went to and later taught at SAIT (Southern Alberta Institute of Technology), not Seneca.
> I actually might not be able to answer this very well. I am legally blind, but just barely, and I tend to touch my nose to my paper/screen to get things done.
> If I read Braille, I do it by looking.
>
> That said, I can answer this question about SAIT, and the Software Development diploma, since my GF, who is totally blind, took the last two years.
>
> It is very easy to talk with the instructors directly, and they have always been very accommodating.
> She has always been able to take exams on her own computer, without interference from higher-ups.
> But, I cannot recommend the program, since you will almost certainly be bored—this program is meant to teach the basics of development.
> Based on your resume, this will not be a suitable program for you; I highly recommend the 4-year degree path.
 
2. Transferring Credits: Do you know how transferring credits from U of A would work for me? I've completed seven courses, worth twenty-one credits. I'd really prefer not to start over. Most of the courses I've completed are junior-level science courses, such as linear algebra, basic programming courses, and discrete math, along with a couple of arts courses.

> Inside Alberta, these courses should transfer relatively easily.
> We even have a pre-approved database of transfer credits.
> You can find that here: https://transferalberta.alberta.ca/transfer-alberta-search#/audienceTypeStep


3. Financial Aid: This is another crucial aspect for me. Although the tuition at Seneca is lower, things like residence and meal plan bring it roughly to similar value. I would still need significant financial support to succeed, especially if the University of Alberta doesn't cooperate. I plan to escalate this matter, possibly through legal means but no assurance that I get anything back. I know Seneca offers merit-based scholarships, but I'm not sure how likely I am to receive them given my current academic track record. I know they have bursaries, but in my experience the university ahs been very hesitant with that so far and unwilling to offer that despite knowing about my circumstances and me advocating, both U of A and now this smaller university I was talking about apparently my situation isn't dire enough to meet their criteria of financial need, same with scholarships or any other form of financial aid they could offer. I am also unable to get any other external funding from province as I am an international student and most things I have looked up thus far require you to be a citizen or permanent resident. What is your experience with financial aid at Seneca? Do they offer many scholarships? Would they be open to advocacy efforts? I apologize if I sound a bit pessimistic, but after facing so many disappointments, I've learned to be quite weary and cautious.

> No need to apologize, I've heard your story too many times, from all over the country. It's brutal out there. 
> There are few opportunities for international funding at the undergraduate level. Simple as that.
> Have you applied for scholarships with whatever the Indian version of CNIB is? Those scholarships tend to have very little competition, and I think it is likely that you could get some funding that way.
>
> The only other option is school-based scholarships, and at SAIT, you do get around $1,000 off just by having a good GPA; I am doubtful this will have a great effect on you since you pay int'l fees.

4. Program Structure: Seneca's program structure seems different from what I'm used to. It's a diploma program rather than a four-year degree. Could you explain how this differs from a standard university experience? Ideally, I'd like to earn a bachelor's degree, if not immediately, then eventually. I've heard you can transfer to another university for the final year and earn a bachelor's degree—how true is this? Could you clarify the differences between a diploma and a bachelor's degree in terms of skills, qualifications, and how employers perceive them?

> Lots to unpack here.
> 1. If you decide to do a diploma at SAIT, you will need to complete two years of university afterwards, not one.
> The only place where you can do one year is in Ontario, as they have two separate Bachelor's degree designations: regular (3 year) and honours (4 year).
> I do not know if this matters to you, but graduate-level programs will require an Ontario "honours" degree.
> 2. The difference between university and college is that university tends to be much more flexible in terms of schedule, course offerings, and getting credit for non-coursework (i.e. research/internship).
> College is almost always a fixed-schedule, specific-course mandated program, with no electives. There tends very few liberal education courses at college.
> It's really up to you what you value more—personally I am enjoying university much more, but that's just me.
> My GF says she prefers college since it's more applied (less theory).
> 3. Employers. Average employers don't care, but the more advanced the job, the more they will value a degree.
> Again, this is really up to the kind of work you want to be doing; you typical web-development job will barely notice the difference if they care at all.

5. Overall Program Quality: How is the program for a Computer Science enthusiast? Based on your blog, you spoke highly of it, and I could relate to your experiences with the teaching methods, courses, and environment. As someone who values practical experience and hands-on learning, how did you find Seneca in terms of future opportunities? I know there's a co-op program, which is a plus, but what about job prospects? While rankings don't concern me as much, I know some employers care about the university's reputation; both in terms of networking during a student's program, and afterwords when going out into the industry. For example, at U of A, we frequently had guest speakers from the Alberta Machine Learning Institute, tech events, hackathons, etc. I was actively involved in these, even serving as vice president of the U of An Artificial Intelligence Society and a cybersecurity club. How does the exposure at Seneca compare?

> SAIT has a relatively small scale campus life—many are working, and just "want the paper" so to speak.
> Evening classes are often an option for those wanting to continue while in full-time employment.
> SAIT will have experts come in on occasion, but it is up to you to seek out those opportunities; they will not come to you.
>
> Clubs tend to be small, and have relatively sparse meetings. 

6. Social Environment: I'm sure you're aware that socializing can be... challenging for visually impaired people, especially those with "nerdy" interests. How enthusiastic are the students about what they're doing? Is there genuine passion for programming and building things together, or is it more about getting through college and securing high-paying jobs? Is there a culture of participating in hackathons and collaborating on projects, coming up with cool ideas and building things for the betterment of the world? Did you find it easy to relate to and connect with others, establish a friend circle?

> Most are interested in just getting it done.
> I found a much better environment and connections by going to meet ups in the city; those tended to be much more engaging, and they were way more interested in building cool things than random classmates.
> To be fair, I would occasionally see a classmate at these events too. But my emphasis would be on getting off campus if that's what you're wanting to do.
> My local Hackathon in Calgary is monthly, and I was able to make a few interesting connections and projects there!
> Here is one where I tried to make binary tree graph both visually and semantically accessible: https://github.com/TTWNO/semantigram
 
7. Campus Overview: Could you give me a rundown of the campus? How large is it, and how many students are there? The size and population of a campus can be a blessing or a curse for blind/visually impaired people, impacting socializing, O&M, etc. At U of A, most classes are held in large lecture halls with 150-200 students, making it hard to get to know each other. I usually prefer more intimate settings where I can interact with my professors and they know who I am, as I had in India. Not to mention competing with my peers to get into classes since the demand is so high even with so many class sections for one singular course and so many students. Imagine that, fighting to get into courses that you paid for.

> Have you considered getting priority registration for courses through accessibility services? I can be a godsend.
> SAIT is about 5 by 4 large city blocks, with around 14,000 students at any given time.
> The campus has decent accessibility, and good snow removal in the winter.
> The one thing SAIT has over basically anywhere is the quality of food on campus—it is truly outstanding. They even have one of the cheapest butcheries in the city, where the culinary students learn their craft. If you care about food, it's awesome!
> SAIT has no large lecture-hall style classes in the Software Development program. All classes are between 30 and 40 students.

8. Living in Ontario/Toronto: Since I've only lived in Alberta so far, what's the accessibility system like in Ontario? I've heard it's better there, though it's also a more expensive place to live. I've heard Ontario has specific laws regarding accessibility, which we don't have here. How is O&M and independent living skills support? In Alberta, I was only able to get one O&M session every three weeks, and independent living skills training was even less frequent—neither being sufficient to thrive and learn the layout of U of A's vast campus.

> I can speak on living in Calgary. It is more expensive than Edmonton, but not by much.
> I currently live in Kensington (just south of SAIT campus) and it's nice to be able to hop on the train to class.
>
> Yes, the AODA is somewhat more strict than our national standards as far as I'm aware, but I don't know how much this contributes in real terms, since I have never lived there.
>
> That said, I may actually be able to help you.
> I've done a fair amount of accessible document remediation in my time and even have done entire STEM courses contents like Computer Systems, and DSA at Simon Fraser University into accessible formats.
> I wonder if we could work something out with the university where I can transcribe the content (including math) into MathML for you?
> It is one possibility anyways, if you decide to continue at UofA.
> 
> I can confirm that SFU is about as bad as what you have described at UofA; if it wasn't, I'd have never been contracted to fix their inaccessible material, lol!

---

I'd love to learn more about what you want to work on post-graduation.
I'm currently working on getting a TTS engine to run in the UEFI menu (and hopefully make the menu accessible in the future); this is a project I'm currently working on at University of Lethbridge for my undergrad right now.
I was able to transfer all my credits from SAIT to UofL, and start as a third-year standing student, and there are a couple other programs like that in Alberta that transfer to UofA, UofL, Athabasca (our provincial online uni) and even UofC; maybe see if there is a NAIT (Northern Alberta Institute of Technology) that can transfer you to year three at UofA.
Honestly, if you want to stay in a familiar city, that may be an option too. You can check the provincial registry I linked above for more information on what transfers where.

I hope to hear back soon,
—Tait

